Hello world!

Today's lesson was about Version Control System and basic commands of GIT.

Today we learned about databeses and its problems. We created our own pokemon centers and used a random generator to create random orders and recorded them on a spreadsheet.

Today we learned more about databases. We learned about key attributes and how to use them to create smaller independent tables such as pokemons, trainers, and centers.

Today we learned about Entity sets and ER Diagrams. We learned to use different symbols to represent entities, attributes, and relations in a diagram.

Today we learned more about entity-relationship models. We learned about relationship roles, subclasses, and weak entity sets.

Today we applied what we learned about ER models on more complex examples. We created ER diagrams for leagues, teams, players, positions, captains, fans, persons, matches, scores, stadiums.. etc.

Today we took a test about ER diagrams. There were three questions and it was difficult.

Today we designed another ER diagram. I worked with Clement as a group to create a presentation on the ER diagram. We also listened to other students' presentations and critiqued their diagrams.

Today we entered the second phase of the course. We learned to convert ER diagrams, a higher level of representation, to Relational Models, a lower level of representation.

Today we learned about normals forms. There was normal form one, two, and three. We tried to come up with our own normal form three, and we critiqued each others' relational models.

Today we tried to find errors in other databases. Then we used real-life data to make a relationship model. We first made ER models by writing on paper. Then we typed the relational models and put them on google slides.

Today we learned about the importance of denormalization. Normalization focuses of reducing redundancy, while denormalization may sometimes increase performance. Then we presented our relation schemas.

Today we attempted to explain to an 8-year old what BCNF is. Then we signed up in Kaggle to have access to real life database.

Today we have time to work on our real life databases. I was working on Burritos in California. I had a little nap.

Today we are again given time to work on our databases. I am finished with first, second, and third normalizations. All I need is explain. We will be learning SQL next class!

Today we use MySQL to create databases. Then, we studied different commands of SQL like Create Table and Insert Into. Finally, we created a time magazine table.

Today we learned more about SQL language. We learned the commands create, show, describe, drop, and comment. We used these commands to create an sql_class schema as well as a movieDatabase schema and multiple files and multiple tables like movie and actor.

Today I learned to upload a file into this file. It is named music.sql. We also learned new commands like select, from, where, like, and, or, limit, desc, %_, and others.

Today we learned about the commands inner join, update, set, using, delete, sum(), and max(). It seems like there are many many SQL commands out there.

Today we learned about two new commands, alias and group by, and we reviewed the other numerous commands. We had exercizes where we imitate tables of queries from the powerpoint.

Today we continued the exercise on investigation employees. We learned two more commands: union and left join. Both were slightly difficult concepts.

Today we had a lot of fun doing the round of queries. I found many queries and also gave one query.

Today is the last class for Database Modeling course. In this course, I learned about what a database is, how important it is to the current society, and, most importantly,
how to design a database. To briefly summarize what I learned, a database is a list of numbers, words, or any form of information organized into categories and listed in tables.
The information is usually organized by packages where each package has it own type, (seat, table) and a list of information related to that type, (price, weight). The package,
interestingly, can be compared to objects in the real world, and the purpose of the database is to create a table where a list of objects of the same type can be recorded. Throughout the
course, I began to learn how relevant this concept of "database" is to my own life. Powerschool, Google, and many other apps rely on similar systems. Database modeling will become very
useful if I decide to become a database designer in the future. Even if I don't, most companies will need database to function, and I can definitely utilize my knowledge from this course to
help ensure that the databases around me are well-designed. Or, I may better understand how to query, or retrieve or change, information. This I discovered is a relatively important part
of database design, as a useful database will be constantly updated. The language SQL is especially important in facilitating queries. The next half of our Database course is mainly about
the different key terms of SQL, including show, use, describe, select, from, where, using, inner join, group by, union... These terms allow me to more easily find the information that I am
look for in a database, and further look for any unique characteristics in the information of the database. It also allows me to insert, update, and delete list of items, and, very important,
SQL is the most direct method through which we create a database, although the complexity of the database requires us to first plan out our design through the entity relatiionship model and
relational schema.